% 20 Apr 2014 : GWA : 0.5 page.

\section{Conclusion}
\label{sec-conclusion}

PocketLocker addresses an emerging need of mobile systems by crafting a
personal storage cloud from multiple personal devices.  While mobile devices
remain storage constrained, consumers today typically have copious unused
storage in other devices such as desktop computers and external hard drives.
Previous cloud-based solutions have not been designed to target this space.
PocketLocker does, in a manner sensitive to both the reliability limitations of
consumer equipment and the energy limitations and communication costs of mobile
devices. It targets rarely changing files such as photos and videos, typical
products of mobile devices.  The system distributes these files automatically
amongst the devices of a user's personal cloud. The storage devices need not be
homogeneous in size or type.  An intelligent orchestrator arranges storage to
maximize usage of these differing devices, maximize redundancy, and minimize
network costs.  PocketLocker is free and uses no additional devices.  System
storage and backup policies are tuned based upon data gleaned from testing
using using 100 smartphones.

Looking ahead, we envision incorporating energy minimization in the system's
chunk placement algorithm---presently, it considers network connectivity and
storage size.  The timing of when new files are uploaded to the PSC presently
hinges on fixed deadlines.  We would like to use a more flexible schedule that
considers network and energy conditions dynamically.

\section*{Acknowledgments}
The authors would like to thank the anonymous MobiCASE reviewers for their
constructive feedback. \PhoneLab{} administrator Maulik Dave was particularly
helpful in setting up our experiments and providing information about the
testbed.
\newline
\newline
\newline
\newline

